-President Trump made up
another weird thing
about a foreign country while
attacking a retired Admiral
for not getting
Osama bin Laden sooner.
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
Whether you believe Donald Trump
colluded with Russia or not,
whether you consider him a
threat to democracy or not,
one thing I think everyone can
agree on is that he is weird.
He is a weird man.
Just a flag-hugging,
umbrella-ditching,
can't do a normal handshake
kind of weirdo.
And one of the weird little
things about
Donald Trump's presidency is
that every few months or so
he concocts a bizarre lie
about another country,
and then everyone in that
country has to figure out
what the hell
he's talking about.
Remember when he did it to
Sweden last year?
-You look at what's happening
last night in Sweden.
Sweden, who would believe this?
Sweden.
-Now, those words about Sweden
sparked a quick backlash
with officials in that country
who wanted to know
what he was talking about
because there was no attack
in Sweden the previous night.
-This was front-page news here
on Monday,
it's also been the subject of a
significant amount of ridicule
online and people you talk to
here making jokes, you know.
What was Donald Trump
referring to last night
when he spoke on Saturday,
jokes like,
"Hey, did someone take
all our Swedish meatballs?"
-Okay, but please don't
joke about it
because then Trump will think
you're serious
and start repeating that, too.
-Immigrants are
sneaking into Sweden
and stealing their meatballs,
folks.
And it's very upsetting to their
celebrity chefs.
He called me last night.
He called me on the phone last
night and he said,
and these are his exact words,
he said to me,
"Schmorgity, borgity,
borgity, borg."
And you know, it's so true.
I said it's so true.
Seriously, you know it's bad
when even the Swedes
are mocking us.
This would be like Ikea changing
their instructions to this.
[ Laughter ]
Then Trump did it again
in September
when he went to the U.N.
and said something about Germany
that was
so detached from reality,
even the German delegation
couldn't help but laugh at him.
-Germany will become totally
dependent on Russian energy
if it does not immediately
change course.
Here in the Western hemisphere
we are committed to maintaining
our independence
from the encroachment
of expansionist foreign powers.
[ Laughter ]
-Not only
are these dudes laughing,
but look at this lady's face.
[ Laughter ]
She doesn't know what the hell
he's talking about
and she's from a country where
this is a real word.
[ Laughter ]
And then there's one of Trump's
weirdest recurring lines,
that he has a friend
in Paris
who keeps telling him that Paris
is no longer Paris.
-I have a friend, every year he
goes to Paris.
I haven't seen him in awhile.
Paris, oh, the city of lights.
He's told me for years,
Paris, Paris.
I see him, like, a month ago.
"How was Paris this summer?"
"I don't go to Paris,
are you kidding me?"
I have a friend used to go to
Paris, loved Paris.
I said to him recently,
"How was Paris this summer?"
"He said we don't go to Paris."
He said,
"Paris is no longer Paris."
Which is obviously true.
I have a friend, he's a very,
very substantial guy.
He loves the city of lights.
He loves Paris.
And I said, Jim,
let me ask you a question.
"How is Paris doing?"
"Paris?
I don't go there anymore.
Paris is no longer Paris."
-I feel like what happened here,
is Trump went to Paris,
met a mime, and misinterpreted
what he was saying.
My friend Jim told me immigrants
are climbing,
they're climbing into Paris --
They're trying to pull.
The police are trying to pull
them out, but they can't,
and that's why, you know,
they need, you know.
They need a wall.
[ Cheers and applause ]
I'd rather talk to a mime than
an American who calls it Pa-ris.
He's telling me Pa-ris, Pa-ris.
So if you're keeping track,
Trump he made up
a fake terror attack in Sweden,
claimed Germany
was captive to Russia,
and said Paris
just doesn't exist anymore.
And Trump did it again over
the weekend when he traveled to
California to survey damage
from the wildfires there.
He made a very strange claim
about how they prevent
forest fires in Finland.
Watch as your deeply weird
President stands awkwardly
to the current incumbent
governors of California
and rambles, incoherently, like
he just overdosed on SUDAFED.
-I'm committing to make sure
that we get all of this
cleaned out and protected,
Gotta take care of the floors,
the floors of the forest.
It's very important.
You look at other countries
where they do it differently,
and it's
a whole different story.
I was with the president of
Finland and he said,
"We have a much different --
we're a forest nation."
He called it a forest nation.
And they spend
a lot of time on raking
and cleaning and doing things
and they don't have any problem.
And what it is,
it's a very small problem.
I know everybody's
looking at that to that end.
And it's going to work out.
It's going to work out well.
-Look at everyone else trying
not to look at him.
They all look like parents at
the grocery store
Whose toddler just said,
"Daddy, that lady is fat."
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
If you didn't know
Trump was president,
you'd think he was a weirdo who
just walked up to them
from his trailer in the woods.
He's going to be
covered in leaves
and holding
a giant walking stick.
You got to rake the floors!
You got to rake the floors
of the forest!
[ Laughter ]
That's what my friend,
Nutty the squirrel, told me,
isn't that right, Nutty?
Can we go back to
this real quick.
-You got to take care of the
floors.
You know,
the floors of the forest.
-Why does he call it
the floor of the forest?
It's the ground.
[ Laughter ]
Does he also call the sky the
ceiling of the Earth?
The more he talks,
the clearer it is
that he has never been outside.
[ Laughter ]
These wildfires, the floor is
filthy, now we got to mop it up.
We'll also be replacing these
wood columns with steel beams.
And as you can see,
the roof is gone.
And of course, once again --
[ Cheers and applause ]
Once again it happened with
Sweden, Germany, and Paris,
the president of Finland
had to come out
and publicly clarify that he did
not, in fact, tell Trump
that people in his country rake
the floors of the forest.
-The President of Finland says
he did discuss
the California wildfires
with President Trump,
but he doesn't quite recall
the conversation the same way.
He said they did talk about
California's wildfires,
and some of the ways that
Finland maintains the forest,
but raking did not come up.
-Keeps happening.
Trump makes up something insane
about another country
and then the president
of that country
has to come out and say
it's not true.
We're like a week away
from the president of Romania
calling a press conference
to say,
"I did not tell President Trump
that vampires are real."
And again...
[ Applause ]
And again, just as
the Germans laughed at us,
and the Swedes made fun of us,
the Finnish people are now
mocking Trump's comments on
social media,
like this woman who tweeted
"Just an ordinary day
in the Finnish forest."
with a picture of herself
vacuuming the ground outside.
You mean that? That's pretty
good. That's very good.
Can we see real quick the German
reaction to that?
There you go. They like it.
Trump has to concoct fantastical
lies like this
because they reinforce his
diluted world view
and they're easier to swallow
than reality,
and in this case the reality is
that man-made climate change
is making these fires more
frequent and extreme,
but Trump would rather make up
an insane fantasy
about firefighters
raking forest floors
than admit that
climate change is having
deadly real-world consequences.
Just watch this exchange
from an interview "Fox News"
aired over the weekend.
-I was watching the firemen
the other day.
And they were raking areas.
They were raking areas where the
fire was, right over there.
And they're raking trees, little
trees, like this, --
not trees, little bushes, that
you could see are totally dry.
Weeds. And they're raking them.
They're on fire.
That should have been all raked
out and cleaned out.
-What about the argument it's
climate change?
That it's drier,
it's hotter,
and that that's contributing
to it?
-maybe it contributes a little
bit.
The big problem we have is
management.
You need forest management.
It has to be.
I'm not saying that
in a negative way,
I'm just saying the facts.
And I've really learned a lot.
-No, you haven't.
Though in fairness,
if you don't know anything
and then you learn one thing,
it seems like a lot.
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
The president
is a conspiracy theorist
who makes up cartoonish lies
about everything
from wildfires to immigration.
And when you call him out, he
attacks you.
Just take retired Admiral
William McRaven,
a Navy SEAL who oversaw the raid
that killed Osama bin Laden.
McRaven has criticized Trump's
attacks on the press
and in return,
Trump decided to insult him.
-Bill McRaven, retired Admiral,
Navy SEAL, 37 years,
former head of
U.S. Special Operations.
-Hillary Clinton fan.
-Special operations --
-Excuse me,
Hillary Clinton fan.
-Who led the operations,
commanded the operations
that took down Saddam Hussein
and killed Osama bin Laden
says that
your sentiment is
the greatest threat to democracy
in his lifetime.
-He's a Hillary Clinton backer
and an Obama backer.
And, frankly --
-He's a Navy SEAL.
-Wouldn't it have been nice
if we got
Osama bin Laden a lot
sooner than that.
-You're attacking him for not
getting Osama bin Laden sooner?
Oh, because I totally
could see you charging in there
in your hat
and your wind breaker,
swinging a rake
like it's a sword.
Where are you? Osama? Osama!
I'm gonna --
I'm gonna rake your floors.
[ Laughter ]
Trump then went on
to claim that it was obvious
to everyone
where bin Laden was hiding,
and also found a way
to work in a very strange dig
at bin Laden's compound.
-Think of this,
living in Pakistan,
beautifully in Pakistan
in what I guess
they considered a nice mansion,
I don't know, I've seen nicer.
Mm.
You can make
this idiot a president
And everything still
comes back to real estate.
It's in a little neighborhood in
the middle of Pakistan,
I call it Mid-Pac.
[ Laughter ]
The Mid-Packing district.
Only Donald Trump.
Only Donald Trump can make
himself feel better
by implying he has a nicer house
than Osama bin Laden.
Bin laden's already one of the
most hated evil people
in the history
of human civilization.
You're not, like, burning him by
saying he has a crappy house.
Who's Trump gonna go after next?
You know,
people make fun of my hair,
but it's much nicer
than the Unabomber's.
[ Laughter ]
We have a president who concocts
outlandish lies
and spreads conspiracy theories
and attacks anyone
who calls him out,
and all the while
the rest of the world
laughs at us,
from Finland to Germany to --
-Sweden!
-This has been "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]